(THUNDER CLAPPING)
(ROCK SONG PLAYING)
(GRUNTS)
Who's there?
(GRUNTING)
Help!
(SCREECHING)
What do you want?
(EXCLAIMS IN PAIN)
(SCREAMING)
BELLA: "Some say
the world will end in fire
"Some say in ice
"From what I've tasted of desire
"I hold with
those who favor fire
"But if I had to perish twice
"I think I know enough of hate
"To say that for destruction ice
"Is also great
"And would suffice"
You know,
I've got an English final.
I gotta focus.
Marry me.
No.
Change me.
Okay, I will if you marry me.
It's called a compromise.
That's just called coercion.
It's not fair.
Marriage is just...
It's a piece of paper.
Where I'm from,
it's the way one says,
"I love you."
Well, where I come from,
at my age,
it's the way one says,
"I just got knocked up."
So, you're worried
about what people
will think?
You know,
two out of three
marriages end in divorce.
Well, I think you'll find
the vampire/human divorce rate
is a little lower.
So marry me.
I can't.
I have to be
back at 4:00.
(DOOR CLOSING)
4:00 on the dot.
That kid trying to
brown-nose me now
or something?
He has a name.
Now he's too
punctual for you?
Okay.
You understand
why you're being
punished, right?
I know, I put you through hell.
Yes, you did.
But I have other
reasons for grounding you.
Like...
I just want you to
get some separation
from him.
Dad, there's nothing
you can say.
Edward is in my life.
Yeah, I'm gathering that.
So, all right, how about this?
I'll make you a deal.
You're not grounded anymore
if you use your
new-found freedom
to see some of your other
friends, too, like...
Like Jacob.
He's going through
a really tough time
right now.
His dad's really
worried about him.
I remember when that was you.
You needed a friend.
Jake was there.
(ON VOICEMAIL)
Hey, it's Jake.
Leave a message.
BELLA: Jacob hadn't
talked to me in weeks.
I wanted to fix it, he just...
He wouldn't give me the chance.
(ENGINE STALLING)
(CRASHING)
You scared me.
You're going down
to the reservation.
How did you...
Alice.
Hey, did you do this
to my truck?
Bella, you have to understand.
Your safety is everything to me.
Jacob's not gonna hurt me.
Not intentionally,
but the wolves
have no control.
Edward.
I have until graduation
to see him.
And then I'll be one of you,
and he'll hate me forever.
Well, I'm sorry.
I want you to be happy.
I'll understand
if you're too angry
for me to come to
your room tonight.
Just keep the window closed.
(ALL CHATTERING)
JESSICA: No way. Stop.
MIKE: Throw it away.
Good.
Hey.
Just in time.
All right, check it out.
All right.
Let's see, we got.
"My fellow students."
Right?
Good.
Cute.
Right? "We are the future.
"Anything is possible,
if you just believe."
Nice.
ERIC: Perfect.
And you got yourself a speech.
No, this'll be my
speech when I want
everyone to throw
diplomas at my head.
So, thank you.
You gotta embrace
the cliches, Jess.
They are the
bread and butter
of all valedictorians.
And that is why you
are not valedictorian.
Jess doesn't need cliches.
The speech is gonna be epic.
Epic? It'll change lives.
I've decided to throw a party.
After all, how many times
are we gonna graduate
high school?
A party? At your place?
I've never seen your house.
No one's ever seen their house.
Another party, Alice?
It'll be fun.
Yeah. That's what
you said last time.
Hey, Angela.
Yeah?
Do you need some
help with those?
JESSICA: ...be sending
money 'cause it's
the polite thing to do,
and then you'll be raking it in.
MIKE: Wait a minute.
People give you money?
(INAUDIBLE)
I know you know
what she saw. Tell me.
It was nothing.
You looked worried.
Just that everyone noticed
how strange Alice is.
I think that ship
sailed long ago.
I wonder what's wrong.
EDWARD: Their son
went missing in Seattle
over a year ago.
Charlie's doing
what he can, but...
You know something about this?
We've been tracking
the situation in Seattle
for a while.
Unexplained disappearances.
Killings.
If the situation gets
any more conspicuous,
the Volturi will step in.
If they go to Seattle,
they could come here.
They could see I'm still human.
It won't get that far.
But we'll go to Seattle
if we have to.
CHARLIE:
I'll fax these down,
first thing.
MR. BIERS: Thank you.
Hey.
You ready for dinner?
Yeah.
It is still just
you and I, right?
No, I'm just dropping her off.
See you later.
Bye.
Bella, my parents
wanted to remind you
about the airline ticket
you got for your birthday.
What airline ticket?
A round trip ticket
to see Mom in Florida.
That was generous.
It expires soon,
so you might want to
use it this weekend.
Well, I can't just
drop everything and go.
It might be your
last chance to see her
before you graduate.
CHARLIE: Might not
be a bad idea.
Get out of town
for a couple days.
Get some distance.
Yeah, I wouldn't mind
seeing Mom.
As long as you use
the companion ticket.
Wait.
There's two tickets?
Super.
That makes me really happy.
BELLA: I did want
to see my mom.
I wanted to know
that her life was
full and satisfying.
RENEE: Aren't you
gonna miss this?
Can't you just
feel the vitamin D
soaking up in your pores?
Yeah, I am gonna miss this.
You know,
colleges in Florida
are a lot sunnier.
I'm just saying,
if you go to
the University of Alaska,
I'm never gonna see you.
They have a really
great science program.
You mean, Edward program?
The way he watches you,
it's like he's willing
to leap in front of you
and take a bullet or something.
Is that a bad thing?
It's an intense thing.
You're different with him.
He moves, you move.
Like magnets.
I don't know, we're just...
In love. I get it.
I just want to
make sure you're making
the right choices for you.
You know, 'cause you're the one
that's gonna have
to live with them.
All right,
enough with the heavy.
Mom.
Congraduation.
I didn't want you
to spend any of your money.
Ah! I didn't, come on.
(BOTH LAUGHING)
Are these all our
old trip T-shirts?
Mmm-hmm.
Get out!
I saved them all.
I thought they'd
make a good quilt,
keep you warm up in Alaska.
Remember this one?
Ensenada.
The Snake Pit.
Yeah.
But this one is
my favorite, here.
The three-headed
lobster from Maine.
This is amazing.
Honey, I'm glad you like it.
I just figured, you know,
when you get older,
have kids, we can add to it.
Maybe go visit
the world's largest
ketchup bottle or something.
Thanks.
Oh!
I'm glad you like it.
Just thought you should have
a little piece of me
up there in Alaska.
Mom...
Yeah?
I miss you.
Honey, I miss you, too.
Are you sure
this is where
you saw her?
She's almost here.
On your left!
(GRUNTING)
Wait!
She's in their territory.
She'll get away!
No, she won't!
ESME: Emmett, no!
(GRUNTING)
(GROWLING)
Do you regret going?
No.
It was really great
seeing my mom.
Just really hard saying goodbye.
It doesn't have to be goodbye.
Is that why you asked me to go?
You thought I was
gonna change my mind?
I'm always hoping for that.
What?
If I asked you to stay
in the car, would you?
Of course not.
Hey.
Charlie said you left town.
Yeah.
To visit my mom. Why?
He's checking to see
if you're still human.
Look, I'm here to warn you.
If your kind come
on our land again...
Wait, what?
You didn't tell her?
Just leave it alone, Jacob.
Tell me what?
Emmett and Paul had
a misunderstanding.
It's nothing to worry about.
JACOB: Listen to you.
Did you lie to get
her out of town, too?
You should just leave.
Now.
She has a right to know.
She is the one
the redhead wants.
Victoria?
Alice's vision.
I was trying to protect you.
By lying to me.
Okay, we're gonna
talk about this, but...
You.
Why haven't you called me back?
I had nothing to say.
Well, I have tons.
Hold on.
Hey.
Bella.
Edward, you have to trust me.
I do trust you.
It's him I don't trust.
Hey, lose the grin, Jacob.
We're just going for a ride.
Hold on tight.
Are you sure
this is a good idea?
I am the vampire girl, remember?
Hey, look who's back!
What up, Bella?
Quil? You, too?
Yep.
Finally made the pack.
EMBRY: I'm glad
you're here, Bella.
Maybe we can get
a break from Jake's
obsessive inner monologue.
"I wish Bella would call."
"I wish Bella
wouldn't call."
"Maybe I should call Bella."
""Maybe I should
call Bella and hang up."
(ALL LAUGHING)
All right, you can shut up now.
Bella,
this is Leah Clearwater,
Harry's daughter.
Hey. I'm really
sorry about your father.
If you're here to
torture Jacob some more,
feel free to leave.
Fun, isn't she?
Bella, hi!
Hey.
I was wondering
when we'd see your
face around here again.
Yeah. Same here.
Sam, we good?
We're good.
She won't be getting
through our line any time soon.
Cool.
Yeah, that's right boys!
So when did Leah join the pack?
Around when her dad died.
Her brother, Seth,
also phased.
He's only 15,
one of the youngest
we've had.
Sam keeps him home studying,
but he's chomping at the bit.
I wish it was
Leah who'd stay home.
Come on, don't be such a guy.
No, it's not a chick thing.
It's, you know,
a triangle thing.
We all have to live
the Leah/Sam/Emily pain-fest.
Wolf telepathy, remember?
So Sam dumps Leah for Emily?
Yeah, it wasn't like that.
Sam hates himself
for hurting Leah.
But Emily was the one.
I guess it sort of
chooses you sometimes.
It's more than
some crush, Bella.
Sam imprinted on Emily.
Do I even want to
know what that is?
Imprinting on someone is like...
Like when you see her,
everything changes.
All of a sudden,
it's not gravity
holding you to the planet.
It's her.
Nothing else matters.
You would do anything,
be anything for her.
Sounds like you
know the feeling.
Have you
imprinted on someone?
You'd know if I had.
I just have a direct
line to Sam's thoughts.
So for now you're
still you.
And you're still you.
Yeah.
Until graduation.
Graduation?
You knew this was gonna happen.
Not in a month!
I mean,
not before you've...
You've even lived.
Or before I could...
(CRASHING)
For a second,
just a second,
I thought...
But he's got his
hooks in you so deep...
I decided this, not him.
Bella, they're not even alive.
It makes me sick.
Better you really be
dead than one of them.
I can't believe you said that.
Edward was right,
I shouldn't have come.
Bella, come on. Please.
I'm sorry.
You know,
Edward could at least
respect meal times.
I was just with Jake.
Oh.
Good.
(KNOCKING AT DOOR)
I'll just give you
two some privacy, then.
Hey.
Do you understand
how worried I've been?
I was perfectly safe.
I almost broke
the treaty to make sure.
I know I smell like a dog.
I'm sorry.
No, something's wrong.
Edward, what's wrong?
Someone's been in here.
DR. CULLEN: Who was it?
Someone we know?
This stranger,
I didn't recognize
his scent.
A nomad passing through?
A passerby
wouldn't have left
Bella's father alive.
The scent disappeared
about five miles south
of Bella's house.
Someone's orchestrating this.
Victoria?
I would have seen her decide.
Has to be the Volturi.
I don't think it's
the Volturi, either.
I've been watching
Aro's decisions, too.
EMMETT: So we keep looking.
We'll also take shifts
guarding Bella at her house.
Another protection detail?
DR. CULLEN: Rosalie.
No, she's right.
You can't protect me,
watch my dad and search
for the intruder.
And for Victoria.
And keep yourselves fed.
I'm not leaving
you here defenseless.
Well, I'm not gonna
let you starve.
And I wouldn't be
unprotected. I have...
EDWARD: What?
Whoever it was,
he left his stink behind.
It'll be hard to miss
when we cross it again.
We'll handle it from here.
We don't need you
to handle anything.
Or anyone.
I could care less what you need.
Okay, great.
Then we'll all
work together.
Come on.
We've all got
the same goals here, right?
To catch the bad vampires.
Like there's a difference.
All right, we're done here.
No, you're done here.
Stop!
Let go!
I'm tired of this.
From now on,
I'm Switzerland, okay?
I know you guys
don't like each other.
But we've got bigger problems.
Lots of them.
And this is just one
temporary solution.
If you'd be willing to try.
BELLA: Edward hated the idea,
but it wasn't
about rivalry anymore.
It was about my safety,
and Charlie's.
In the days that followed,
I got them to at least
try to work together.
The wolves took over
so the Cullens could hunt.
It wasn't exactly
an easy alliance.
(GROWLS)
ANGELA: The University
of Washington sent me
and Eric our dorm
assignments yesterday.
I'm in the furthest dorm
from campus.
Eric's in
the closest one, of course.
Is something wrong?
No. Why?
Well, one,
Edward's always with you...
And, two,
you keep looking
out that window...
Like you're hoping
he'll show up and
serenade you or something.
Doubtful.
Okay. You don't
have to talk about it.
No, it's nothing.
I mean, it is, but...
Okay.
You remember Jacob Black.
Oh. Okay, so,
Edward's jealous.
You say that like
it's really obvious.
Isn't it?
I've seen the way
Jacob looks at you.
Edward's seen it, too.
He's only human.
He's going to act
like any other guy.
I think it's
a little more complicated.
Say the word, Bella.
"Jealousy."
I've told Jake how I feel.
He understands.
Hmm. Okay.
So the word is "denial."
Are you saying I'm an idiot?
No, just a little oblivious.
Every move I make hurts someone.
Bella, they're big boys.
They make their own choices.
Seriously,
don't worry about it.
It'll work itself out.
It's not life or death.
Doesn't he own a shirt?
I'm good here.
You should go.
I'm not gonna be gone long.
Don't rush.
You need to hunt.
Maybe rush a little bit.
Hey, beautiful.
Hi.
(TIRES SCREECHING)
So, what do you wanna do today?
Bike, hike, just hang?
Your call.
But we're going
to a party tonight.
Are you sure this is okay?
I really hate
being a party crasher.
Technically,
you're a council
meeting crasher.
You see? The council leaders,
Dad, Quil's grandpa
and Sue Clearwater.
She took over for
Harry when he died.
Okay, I should not be here.
You're okay. I thought...
I mean, they thought
it would be good for you
to hear the histories.
The histories?
The tribe's histories?
Aren't they secret?
We all got a role to play,
and you're part of this.
I mean, it's the first time
Seth, Leah and Quil'll
hear them, too.
But you are
the first outsider. Ever.
If I had known that,
I would have, like...
I don't know, dressed better.
SETH: Jake!
JACOB: Hey.
It's about time you got here.
Paul's been
hoovering the grub,
but I saved you some burgers.
Good looking out, bro.
Bella,
this is Seth Clearwater,
Leah's brother.
Hi.
Newest member
of the pack.
Newest. Bestest.
Brightest.
And slowest.
Come on,
your dad's about to start.
Okay.
The Quileutes have
been a small tribe
from the beginning,
but we have always
had magic in our blood.
We were great spirit warriors,
shape-shifters
that transformed
to the powerful wolf.
This enabled us to
scare off our enemies
and protect our tribe.
One day,
our warriors came
across a creature.
It looked like a man,
but it was hard like stone
and cold as ice.
(GRUNTING)
(GROWLING)
Our warriors' sharp teeth
finally tore it apart,
but only fire would
completely destroy it.
They lived in fear
that the cold man
was not alone.
And they were right.
(SCREAMING)
(ALL CLAMORING)
She took her vengeance
out on the village.
Our elder chief, Taha Aki,
was the only spirit warrior left
to save the tribe
after his son was killed.
(YELLING)
Taha Aki's third wife
could see that he would lose.
The third wife
was no magical being,
with no special powers but one,
courage.
(SCREAMING)
The third wife's sacrifice
distracted the cold woman
long enough for Taha Aki
to destroy her.
She saved the tribe.
Over time, our enemies
have disappeared.
But one remains,
the cold ones.
Our magic awakens
when they're near,
and we sense it now.
We feel the threat in our blood.
Something terrible is coming,
and we must all be ready,
all of us.
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
(GRUNTS)
(GASPING)
What did you do to me?
I'm so...
Yeah. I know.
We'll find you someone to drink.
MALE VAMPIRE: Mine!
Just try not to
get killed, will you?
I'm gonna need numbers.
Seattle is in a state of terror.
Police are baffled by
the escalating murders
and disappearances.
Theories range from
a vicious new gang
to a wildly
active serial killer.
Reporting live...
It's getting worse.
We're going to
have to do something.
It takes more
than one of our kind
to cause the damage
they're reporting.
Quite a few more.
And they're undisciplined,
conspicuous.
It's newborns.
What, like new vampires?
In the first few months
after the change.
That's when
we're at our most
uncontrollable. Vicious.
Insane with thirst.
Something to look forward to.
No one's trained
these newborns,
but this isn't random.
Someone's creating an army.
Well, now we're
definitely going to Seattle.
An army of vampires?
And they've been
created to fight someone.
We're the only clan
even close to Seattle.
DR. CULLEN:
Regardless of why
they were made,
if we don't put
a stop to them,
the Volturi will.
I'm surprised they've
let it go on this long.
Maybe they're behind it.
In Italy, I read Aro's mind.
He wants me and
Alice to join him.
He thinks our gifts
would add to his power.
But he knows
we'll never choose him
as long as our
family's still alive.
An army could
solve that for him.
Edward, I don't think
we should wait
until graduation.
I think you
should change me now.
Bella, no.
I'm a liability now.
I could be an asset.
You'd be a bigger liability
as a newborn.
Unable to
control your instincts.
An easy target.
There's also your
father to consider.
And your mother.
Imagine how terrible
it would be for them
if you suddenly disappear.
But we're still going to
kick someone's ass, right?
Hey.
Did you eat dinner yet?
No, I haven't.
(CHARLIE SIGHS)
This kid, Riley Biers,
disappeared over a year ago,
and his poor parents
have been papering
Seattle with these
things ever since.
You think they
should just give up?
Well, I wouldn't if it were you.
Not ever.
BELLA: I have to figure out
what to tell people.
Why I won't be
home for Christmases,
and why I won't visit,
why they'll never see me again.
After a few decades,
everyone you know
will be dead.
Problem solved.
Why are you so against
me becoming like you?
I've told you.
Be honest with me.
There's more.
I know the consequences
of this choice you're making.
I've lived through it.
And to let you suffer that...
You believe I have a soul,
and I don't.
But to risk yours,
just for the sake of
never having to lose you,
that's the most
selfish thing I'll ever do.
I thought that you were afraid
that I'd be too different.
You know,
like, I wouldn't be warm,
and I wouldn't smell the same.
You'll always be my Bella.
My Bella, just less fragile.
BELLA: Gosh,
it's so pretty here.
So, Alice has planned
a big graduation party.
Which you're invited to.
Yeah, I figured that.
What?
I just wanted to
do this differently.
Smoother.
But now I'm out of time.
Do what?
You need to hear
the truth, Bella,
understand all your options.
And you need to know
that I'm in love with you,
and I want you to choose me
instead of him.
I thought you understood.
I don't feel that way for you.
I don't buy it.
What don't you buy?
That's how I feel.
You feel
something else for me.
You just won't admit it.
So I'm not giving up.
I'm gonna fight for you
until your heart stops beating.
Well, then you're not gonna
have to fight for long.
You're rushing into it
because you're afraid
you'll change your mind.
No, I'm not.
I know what I want.
You wouldn't have to
change for me, Bella,
or say goodbye to anybody.
I can give you more than him.
I mean, he probably
can't even kiss you
without hurting you.
Feel that?
Flesh and blood.
And warmth.
(GRUNTS)
God!
Edward!
If you ever touch her
against her will again...
Don't do this here!
She's not sure what she wants.
Let me give you a clue.
Wait for her to say the words.
Fine! And she will.
Jacob, just go, okay?
CHARLIE: Hey, hey, hey!
Easy, guys. Easy.
Let's take it down a notch.
All right?
What's going on?
I kissed Bella.
And she broke her hand.
Punching my face.
Total misunderstanding.
DR. CULLEN:
It's just a sprain.
It should heal fairly quickly.
Trying to walk and chew gum
at the same time again, Bella?
I punched
a werewolf in the face.
Badass.
You're gonna be one
tough little newborn.
Tough enough to take you on.
Don't worry about it.
Got any leads?
No sign of the intruder.
But Victoria continues
to make appearances.
Go blather to someone else
about the joys of
becoming a newborn.
Okay...
Rosalie,
I don't understand what I did
to make you hate me so much.
Hate...
I don't hate you.
I don't particularly
like you, but...
Bella, I envy you.
What?
That's ridiculous.
No, it's not.
You have a choice.
I didn't.
None of us did.
But you do,
and you're choosing wrong.
I don't care
how miserable
your human life is.
My life is not miserable.
I mean, it's not perfect.
Nobody's life is perfect.
Mine was.
Absolutely perfect.
There were things
I still wanted,
to be married, with a nice house
and a husband to kiss me
when he came home.
Mostly, I wanted a baby.
He never cries.
ROSALIE: So much.
And he sleeps all night.
Are you just
the best little boy ever?
ROSALIE: Royce King was
the most eligible bachelor
in town.
I barely knew him.
But I was young.
I was in love with
the idea of love.
On the last night of my life,
I left a friend's house late.
I wasn't far from home.
There she is.
Hey, Rose!
Come over here!
Here. Hold this.
Hey, come over here.
We've been waiting for you.
There she is.
Royce. Royce!
(MEN LAUGHING)
You're drunk.
Isn't she lovely, John?
I told you she was a looker.
It's hard to say with
all those clothes on.
What do you say, Rose?
Why don't we take
off a few layers?
Stop it, stop it.
Stop. Stop!
I'll see you tomorrow.
Sober.
Hey, where do you
think you're going?
I said, get...
Come back... Hey!
Stop! Stop! Get off me!
You'll do as I say!
Let go of me! Stop!
Stop! Let go! Stop!
They left me in the street,
thinking I was dead.
Believe me, I wanted to be.
Carlisle found me.
He smelled all the blood.
Thought he was helping me.
I'm sorry.
I got my revenge on them.
One at a time.
Saved Royce for last,
so he'd know I was coming.
(BANGING ON DOOR)
(SCREAMS)
I was a little
theatrical back then.
Things got better
after I found Emmett.
But we'll always be this.
Frozen.
Never moving forward.
That's what I miss the most.
Possibilities.
Sitting on
a front porch somewhere,
Emmett, gray-haired, by my side,
surrounded by our grandchildren.
Their laughter.
I understand that
that's what you want.
But there's nothing
I'm ever gonna want more
than Edward.
You're wrong again.
After you've been changed,
there's one thing
you'll want more,
one thing you'll kill for.
Blood.
(VAMPIRES SCREAMING)
What did I say
about a low profile?
(INDISTINCT SCREAMING)
Something's coming.
Something bigger
than any of us alone.
And if you can't
control yourselves,
we're all going to die.
But, together...
We can crush anything.
Do you understand?
Do you... understand?
What's done is done, just
clean up after yourselves.
They've already
drawn too much attention.
So has our inaction.
Others may begin to question
the Volturi's effectiveness.
Let them.
Maybe we should
consult with Aro.
(GRUNTS)
Aro's decisions
are being watched.
We must decide.
Then decide, sister.
It's time.
Yes, it is.
Either we let them do
what they were created for,
or we end them.
Decisions, decisions.
When we were five, they asked us
what we wanted to
be when we grew up.
Our answers were things
like astronaut, president,
or, in my case, a princess.
(ALL CHUCKLING)
When we were 10,
they asked again.
We answered rock star,
cowboy or, in my case,
a gold medalist.
But now that we've grown up,
they want a serious answer.
Well, how about this?
Who the hell knows?
(ALL CHEERING)
Yeah!
This isn't the time to make
hard-and-fast decisions.
This is the time
to make mistakes.
Take the wrong train
and get stuck somewhere.
Fall in love a lot.
Major in philosophy,
because there's
no way to make
a career out of that.
Change your mind,
and change it again,
because nothing's permanent.
So make as many
mistakes as you can.
That way, someday,
when they ask
what we want to be,
we won't have to guess.
We'll know.
(ALL APPLAUDING)
I'm proud of you, Bells.
I can't wait to see
what you're going
to do next.
You're my
biggest accomplishment.
Dad...
That's not true.
Yes, it is.
Well, you'll see one day,
when you have kids.
(UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING)
You made it!
Hey. What did you
think of my speech?
Too easy-breezy?
Too self-helpful?
You hated it?
No. I think you
pretty much nailed it.
Yeah?
It's like I was
born to lead, right?
I love this song!
Let's go.
(UPBEAT SONG PLAYING)
What are you doing here?
You invited me, remember?
Was my right hook
too subtle for you?
That was me uninviting you.
Look, Bella,
I'm sorry about, you know,
the kiss and your hand.
I'd blame it on
the whole inner animal thing,
but it was really just me
being an ass.
I'm really sorry.
I brought you something.
A graduation present.
I made it myself.
Wow.
You made this?
It's really pretty.
Thanks.
I'll be right back.
Alice, what'd you see?
The decision's been made.
What's going on?
You're not going to Seattle.
No.
They're coming here.
ALICE: They'll be here
in four days.
This could turn
into a bloodbath.
Who's behind it?
I didn't see
anyone I recognized.
Maybe one.
I know his face.
He's local. Riley Biers.
He didn't start this.
Whoever did is
staying out of the action.
They must be playing
with the blind spots
in your vision.
JASPER: Either way,
the army is coming
and there aren't
enough of us
to protect the town.
Hold up. What damn army?
Newborns. Our kind.
What are they after?
They were passing
around Bella's scent.
A red blouse.
They're after Bella?
What the hell does this mean?
It means an ugly fight.
With lives lost.
All right. We're in.
No. You'd get
yourselves killed.
No way.
I wasn't asking for permission.
Edward?
It means more
protection for you.
Jacob, do you believe
Sam would agree to
an understanding?
As long as we get to
kill some vampires.
DR. CULLEN: Jasper?
They'll give us the numbers.
Newborns won't
know they even exist.
That'll give us an edge.
We'll need to coordinate.
Carlisle,
they're gonna get hurt.
We'll all need some training.
Fighting newborns
requires knowledge
that Jasper has.
You're welcome to join us.
All right.
Name the time and place.
Jake, you don't know
what you're getting
yourself into.
Bella,
this is what we do.
You should be happy.
Look at us, working together.
You are the one
who wanted us to
get along. Remember?
Again!
It's a graduation present.
(GROWLING)
They don't trust us enough
to be in their human forms.
They came.
That's what matters.
Will you translate?
Hey, Jake.
Welcome.
Jasper has
experience with newborns.
He'll teach us
how to defeat them.
They want to know
how the newborns
differ from us.
They're a great deal
stronger than us
because their own human blood
lingers in their tissues.
Our kind is never
more physically powerful
than in our first
several months of this life.
Carlisle's right.
That's why they are created.
A newborn army
doesn't need thousands
like a human army,
but no human army
could stand against them.
Now, the two most
important things
to remember are, first,
never let them get
their arms around you.
They'll crush you instantly.
And second,
never go for the obvious kill.
They'll be expecting that,
and you will lose.
Emmett.
Don't hold back.
Not in my nature.
Never lose focus.
One more thing.
Never turn your back
on your enemy.
Some of you are gonna get hurt.
Some of you could get
killed because of me.
It's gonna be
100 times worse
than this, right?
Done for the day.
Jasper?
Are you sure
there's nothing
I can do to help?
Well, your presence alone,
your scent,
will distract the newborns.
Their hunting
instinct will take over
and drive them crazy.
Good. I'm glad.
Hey. How do you know
so much about this?
I didn't have quite
the same upbringing
as my adopted siblings.
Those bites are like mine.
Battle scars.
All the training
the Confederate Army
gave me
was useless
against the newborns.
Still, I never lost a fight.
This happened
during the Civil War?
I was the youngest major
in the Texas cavalry,
all without having
seen any real battle.
Until?
Till I met a certain immortal.
Maria.
I was riding back to Galveston
after evacuating a column
of women and children
when I saw them.
I immediately
offered them my aid.
Lovely. And an officer.
(HORSE WHINNYING)
You'd better do it, Maria.
I can never stop
once I've started.
What's your name, soldier?
Major Jasper Whitlock, ma'am.
I hope you survive.
You may be of great use to me.
Maria was creating an army?
They were very
common in the South.
There were
constant brutal battles
for territory.
Maria won them all.
She was smart, careful,
and she had me.
(GRUNTING)
I was her second in command.
My ability to control emotions
served her well.
I trained her newborns,
(BOTH GRUNTING)
an endless occupation
since she never
let them live
beyond their first year.
It was my job to
dispose of them.
I could feel
everything they felt.
(GROANING)
I thought what Maria
and I had was love.
But I was her puppet.
She pulled the strings.
I didn't know
there was another way
till I found Alice.
Now, she'd seen me
coming, of course.
You kept me waiting long enough.
My apologies, ma'am.
I don't know
what I'd have become
without her.
(SHUSHING)
You never have to be that again.
(WHISPERING IN SPANISH)
Jasper.
I want you to do
something for me.
Kill her.
(SCREAMS)
What is it?
The intruder,
the newborn army,
they're all her puppets.
Victoria.
Alice would have seen
if she wanted to make
an army.
Unless she's hiding behind them
and she's letting
someone else decide.
Welcome to the army.
(SCREAMING)
I'm not just gonna hide
while you're out
taking all the risks for me.
If it's Victoria involved,
I need to keep you
as far away from
the fight as possible.
Jasper said that
I could be of help.
We won't need your help.
With the wolves in this,
it's an easy win.
The rest of us
aren't gonna
have enough to do.
Okay.
Either it's so dangerous
that I have to hide
or it's so easy
that you're gonna be
sidelined. Which is it?
It's dangerous for you,
it's easy for us.
I think it's dangerous
for us to be apart.
How many times do we
have to prove that?
I'll be worried.
You'll be worried.
And we'll both be
more vulnerable.
Okay, you're right.
So I'm coming with you.
No, we both stay away together.
I can't make you choose
between me and your family.
The only way
I can protect you
is to be with you.
You're not fighting?
What, did you pull
a muscle or something?
He's doing it
for me, okay?
Whatever.
Just tell me the plan.
This field will give us
an advantage in battle.
We need to lure the newborns
with Bella's scent,
but it needs to end here.
Edward and I are
going to a campsite.
Even if he carries me,
they'll still pick
up on our scents.
Your stench, however,
is revolting.
Dude, you really
don't wanna start
comparing stinks.
What he means is that your scent
will mask mine if you carry me.
Done.
This is not a good idea.
Edward, they won't
want to get anywhere
near his odor.
Okay. Let's just try it.
Eau de wolf coming up.
Run.
So you gonna ask me
to sit out of the fight, too?
Or don't you care
about my safety?
Of course, I care.
But you'd say no.
I won't have a choice, anyways.
Since I let Sam be alpha male,
I gotta live with
the shots he calls.
Since you let Sam be alpha?
I didn't wanna be in a pack,
let alone be its leader.
Wow.
Chief Jacob.
Opted out.
But every choice
has its consequences.
Some more than others.
Don't start.
Everybody makes choices.
You're gonna
have to accept mine.
But you can love
more than one person
at a time.
I've seen it.
With Sam, Emily and Leah.
Well, I'm not a wolf.
I can't imprint.
It has nothing to do
with imprinting.
It has to do with
feeling something
for somebody.
And I know you
feel something for me.
I can sense how I make
you feel, physically.
I make you nervous.
Jake.
Don't worry.
I promised I wouldn't
kiss you again
till you asked.
You're gonna be
keeping that promise
for a while, chief.
All I picked up was
wolf stench. No Bella.
This will work.
Great.
(INDISTINCT CHATTERING)
Yes. Scout's honor.
Okay, Alice,
don't be a stranger.
Okay.
Your alibi for
the battle is all arranged.
Really?
I told your father
that our whole family's
going camping this weekend,
so you and I are
having a sleepover
at my house.
Charlie's going fishing, anyway.
Charlie?
You guys are on
first name basis now?
Me, he likes.
Actually, you and Edward
will have the house
to yourself tonight.
Like alone?
We're all going hunting.
Powering up for the battle.
You're welcome.
Hey. You want a sandwich?
No, I'm good.
Well, the sister, I like.
Alice.
Yeah, she's great.
Hey, Dad, I was wondering.
Why didn't you
get remarried?
After Mom.
I don't know.
Guess I still haven't
met the right gal.
Why?
I don't know.
I thought you just maybe gave up
on the whole institution of it,
of marriage.
But do you think
there's any value in it?
Yeah. Yeah,
marriage has value.
When you're older.
Much older.
Like your mother.
It seemed to work out
fine for her the
second time around,
later in life.
Yeah, I guess.
I mean,
you definitely don't wanna
have to get married
because you weren't
careful.
What?
Look, you know what
I'm talking about.
There's things you
need to think about
if you're gonna be
physically intimate.
Okay.
Don't have "the talk"
with me, please.
Well, it's just as
embarrassing for me
as it is for you.
I doubt that.
And don't bother,
'cause Mom beat you
to it like 10 years ago.
Well, you didn't
have a boyfriend
10 years ago.
I'm sure things
work the same way.
All right, so...
You guys are taking
precautions and...
Okay, Dad, please,
just don't worry
about that.
Edward is old school.
Old school.
Great. What's that?
Like, code for something?
Oh, my God.
Dad. I'm a virgin.
(STAMMERING)
Okay! Good.
Glad we covered that.
Me, too.
Virgin.
I'm liking Edward
a little bit more now.
What are you doing outside?
What's wrong?
Nothing.
It seems only fair
that I be represented,
as well.
It's really pretty.
Thanks.
There's a bed.
I thought you might
need one to sleep in.
I think an air mattress
would have sufficed.
Is this too much?
No.
No, it's perfect.
I wanna ask you something.
Anything.
Okay, marriage is
the condition for you
to change me yourself, right?
Yes.
Okay. I wanna
negotiate my own condition.
Anything you want.
It's yours.
You promise?
Yeah.
Okay.
Hey.
Bella.
No.
But you said that you wanted me
to have every human experience.
Not ones that will
risk killing you.
You won't.
And everyone says
once I'm changed
all I'll want is to
slaughter the whole town.
That part doesn't last forever.
I want you.
While I'm still me.
While I still
want you this way.
It's too dangerous.
Try. Just try.
I'll go to some
ridiculously expensive
college and let you
buy me a car.
I'll marry you. Just try.
Stop trying to
take your clothes off.
You wanna do that part?
Not tonight.
You...
You mean, you don't...
That's fine.
Believe me, I want to.
I just want to be
married to you first.
You really make me feel
like I'm some sort of villain
trying to steal your
virtue or something.
It's not my virtue
I'm concerned about.
Are you kidding?
It's just one rule
I wanna leave unbroken.
It might be too
late for my soul,
but I will protect yours.
I know that's not
a modern notion.
It's not modern.
It's ancient.
I'm from a different era.
Things were a lot
less complicated.
And if I'd have
met you back then,
I would have courted you.
We'd have taken
chaperoned strolls
and iced tea on the porch.
I may have stolen a kiss or two,
but only after asking
your father's permission.
I would have got
down on one knee,
and I would have
presented you with a ring.
This was my mother's.
Isabella Swan,
I promise to love you
every moment of forever.
And would you do me
the extraordinary
honor of marrying me?
Yes.
You're not coming with us?
It'll be a last minute decision.
I told you how it works.
The Cullens have powers.
Don't underestimate
them, Riley.
You'll have the numbers,
but they'll be able
to anticipate your
every move.
According to your friend?
Yes.
My dead friend.
Laurent found out
about the things
they could do,
and they killed him.
But not before he told me.
Maybe he was wrong.
I mean, this is supposed
to be Cullen territory.
We've been tearing it up
and I've never
even seen them here.
You don't trust me.
With my life.
I'm just saying...
I'm doing this for us.
So that we can feed
without their retaliation.
I can't live in fear anymore,
waiting for them to attack.
I won't let them.
I am going to end
the Cullen clan.
I swear.
I love you so much.
You're going overboard.
If this is all
I can contribute,
I wanna be thorough.
The newborns'll be frantic.
It's okay. Don't make
yourself uncomfortable.
It doesn't bother me anymore.
Since when?
Since I spent 24 hours
thinking you were dead.
You're not wearing your ring.
Well, I didn't want
to risk losing it.
Or risk Jacob seeing it.
I think we should
wait to tell him.
I mean, at least
till after the fight.
If you're having
second thoughts...
I'm not.
I just want him to
have a clear head.
Whose head is unclear?
Nobody's I hope.
Alice says
there's a storm coming.
Yeah, I can feel it.
We should get going.
I'll see you in
a couple of hours.
Something up?
Bunch of vampires
trying to kill me.
Same old same old.
Thank you.
You should get back
before the storm hits.
No, I'm staying.
You'll need my connection
to the pack
to keep tabs on what's going on.
You're not gonna fight?
Seth will spell me
in the morning.
He's not happy
about missing the action
but it'll keep him
out of trouble.
Let's get you inside.
(WHIMPERING)
I should have
chosen a site lower down.
No, it's fine. I'm okay.
What can I do?
(WIND HOWLING)
I can't sleep
with all that teeth
chattering going on.
Forget it.
She may need her toes someday.
And let's face it,
I am hotter than you.
Get your hand off me.
Keep your hands off her.
Don't fight.
If she gets sick, it's on you.
Wow, you're freezing, Bella.
Relax.
You'll warm up soon.
Faster if you took
your clothes off.
Jake.
Survival 101.
Can you at least attempt
to control your thoughts?
I really get under
that ice-cold skin
of yours, don't I?
What?
Are you doubting
her feelings for you?
Nice.
So picking
through my brain's okay,
but letting me
into yours, forget it.
Look.
I know she's in love with you.
Good.
But she's in love with me, too.
She just won't
admit it to herself.
I can't tell if you're right.
Then let me ask you something.
If she chooses me...
She won't.
If she did,
would you try to kill me?
That's an intriguing idea.
But, no. I couldn't
hurt her like that.
So you'd just turn her
into a blood-sucking
demon like you?
I don't want that.
I never wanted that.
So stop her.
I tried.
I left.
But you gave up too quickly.
If you'd stayed
away another 6 months,
I could've made her happy.
Trust me.
You have to consider
that I might be better
for her than you are.
I have considered that.
I know you can protect her.
But you can give her a life,
a human life.
That's all I want for her.
But I'm not...
I'm not going to force her
into anything ever again.
The last time I tried,
it almost killed us both.
Yeah. That I remember.
When you thought she was gone,
that you'd lost her,
how did you cope?
There are no words.
But I wouldn't wish
it on anyone, Jacob.
This might sound odd,
but I'm glad you're here.
Meaning,
"As much as I'd
love to kill you,
I'm glad she's warm."
If we weren't natural enemies
and you weren't
trying to steal
my reason for existing,
I might actually like you.
Well,
if you weren't
planning on sucking the life
out of the girl I love,
I might...
No. Not even then.
But she could
still change her mind,
you know.
Then I'd let her go.
Right. Hey, Seth.
Where's Jacob?
Did he already...
Not yet.
He's checking to see
if the woods are clear
before he goes.
I'm really sorry
about last night.
That couldn't have
been easy on you.
It definitely
won't make my list
of top 10 favorite evenings.
You have a list?
All 10 I spent with you.
Number one is when you said
you'd marry me, Mrs. Cullen.
This is the 21st century.
I at least want to
hyphenate my name.
You're marrying him?
Jake, I...
You knew he was listening!
He deserves to know.
Jake, stop!
Bella, let him...
Don't!
Jake, stop!
Jake, please!
I'm done! I'm so done!
What can I do?
You can't do anything.
I can, by going out there
and killing something.
No! You're not
thinking clearly!
Don't do that!
Maybe I'll get myself killed
and make it simple for you.
No! Just, Jake, stay.
Why?
Give me one good reason.
Because I don't wanna lose you.
It's not good enough.
Because you're too important.
Still not good enough.
Jacob!
Kiss me.
I'm asking you to kiss me.
That should have
been our first kiss.
I gotta go.
I'll be back.
You saw.
No, but...
Jacob's thoughts
are pretty loud.
I don't know what happened.
You love him.
I love you more.
I know.
When I left...
I left you bleeding.
And Jacob stitched you up.
Just left his
mark on both of you.
And that's my fault.
Don't blame yourself.
I just want you to be happy.
No matter how.
(GRUNTING)
(GROWLING)
It's starting.
(ALL YELLING)
(ALL GRUNTING)
(GROWLING)
Jacob just got there.
He's good.
(ALL GRUNTING)
(GROANS)
Someone's hurt?
She's close.
I can hear her thoughts.
Seth, go.
She knew we weren't there,
but she caught my scent.
She knew you'd be with me.
She found us.
She's not alone.
Riley, listen to me.
Victoria's just
using you to distract me.
She knows I'll kill you.
In fact, she'll be glad
she doesn't have to
deal with you anymore.
Don't listen, Riley.
I told you about
their mind tricks.
I can read her mind.
So I know what
she thinks of you.
VICTORIA: He's lying.
She only created you
and this army
to avenge her true mate, James.
That's the only
thing she cares about.
Not you.
There's only you.
You know that.
Think about it.
You're from Forks.
You know the area.
That's the only reason
she chose you.
She doesn't love you.
Riley. Don't let him
do this to us.
You know I love you.
You're dead.
(GROWLING)
(HOWLING)
You won't get another chance
like this again.
You want her.
You want me to
feel the pain you felt
when I killed James,
when I tore him to pieces,
when I turned him into ash,
when I turned him into nothing.
(ROARING)
(GRUNTS)
(BOTH GRUNTING)
(GRUNTING)
(GROWLING)
Victoria!
(GRUNTING)
(LOW GROWLING)
Something is wrong.
Alice needs us to go.
Now.
EDWARD: How long?
A few minutes. Maybe 10?
DR. CULLEN:
The pack needs to leave.
The Volturi won't honor
a truce with the werewolves.
(SNARLS)
Leah, don't!
Jacob!
Jacob. Hold on.
Carlisle's gonna
take care of you.
The bones on the right half
of his body are shattered.
Bella.
Jake, I'm right here.
Jacob, you idiot, I had it!
Leah!
I need to set the bones
before his accelerated
healing kicks in.
It's already starting.
EDWARD: We need to
get him out of here.
We're not gonna win
a fight with the Volturi.
We'll take him back to Billy's.
I'll be there soon as I can.
Hang in there, Jake.
(GROANING)
It's okay. We got you.
We got you.
They're coming.
Impressive.
I've never seen a coven
escape an assault
of this magnitude intact.
We were lucky.
I doubt that.
It appears we missed
an entertaining fight.
JANE: Yes.
It's not often we're
rendered unnecessary.
If you'd arrived
a half hour ago,
you would have
fulfilled your purpose.
Pity.
You missed one.
We offered her asylum
in exchange for her surrender.
That wasn't yours to offer.
Why did you come?
(SCREAMING)
Who created you?
You don't need to do that.
She'll tell you anything
you want to know.
I know.
I don't know!
Riley wouldn't tell us.
He said our thoughts
weren't safe.
Her name was Victoria.
Perhaps you knew her.
DR. CULLEN:
Edward, if the Volturi
had knowledge
of Victoria,
they would have stopped her.
Isn't that right, Jane?
Of course.
Felix.
She didn't know
what she was doing.
We'll take
responsibility for her.
Give her a chance.
The Volturi don't
give second chances.
Keep that in mind.
Caius will be
interested to know
that she's still human.
The date is set.
Take care of that, Felix.
I'd like to go home.
(SCREAMING)
Hey.
(JACOB SCREAMING)
It's been going on for a while.
Doc's re-breaking his bones.
Why did he have to butt in?
I could've taken that tick.
Give it a rest, Leah.
The worst is over.
He'll be all right.
I gave him some morphine,
but his body temperature
will burn it off soon.
I'll come back to set up a drip.
Thank you.
He's asking for you.
Hey, Jake.
Hey.
I was worried about you.
You were worried about me?
Yeah.
I guessed Edward
would read my thoughts.
Was he hard on you?
He wasn't even mad at me.
Or you.
Well, damn.
He's better than I thought.
He's not playing a game.
Right.
Bella.
He's not as perfect
as you think.
I know who he is.
Can we just not talk about that?
I'd rather get all
the re-breaking done
at once.
Well, at least I know
I did everything I could.
It wasn't easy
making you admit
your feelings for me.
I only fought them
because I knew they
wouldn't change anything.
I'm exactly
right for you, Bella.
It would be as easy
as breathing, with me.
You know I love you.
You know how much
I wish it was enough.
Should I come back?
I need some time.
But I'll always be waiting.
Until my heart stops beating.
Maybe even then.
August 13th?
Yeah. It's a month
before my birthday.
I don't need to be
another year older
than you.
Alice said she
could get the wedding
together by then.
I'm sure she can.
There's no rush.
I've chosen my life.
I want to start living it.
And so you're
gonna let Alice
plan the whole thing?
The, uh, dress,
the reception,
the guest list.
I mean, who knows
who she's gonna invite?
Does it matter?
I just don't know
why you're doing this.
What? The wedding?
No.
You're trying to make
everyone else happy,
but you're already
giving away too much.
You're wrong.
This wasn't a choice
between you and Jacob.
It was between
who I should be
and who I am.
I've always felt out of step,
like literally
stumbling through my life.
I've never felt normal.
Because I'm not normal.
I don't want to be.
I've had to face death
and loss and pain
in your world,
but I've also
never felt stronger
and more real, more myself.
Because it's my world, too.
It's where I belong.
So it's not just about me?
No. Sorry.
I've made a mess
trying to figure
all this out,
but I wanna do it right.
And I wanna tie myself
to you in every way
humanly possible.
Starting with a wedding.
Actually,
something a little
more difficult first.
And maybe even dangerous.
We have to tell Charlie.
It's highly dangerous.
It's a good thing
you're bulletproof.
I'm gonna need that ring.